README.md, before:

# Newtons_Cradle - PHYS389 Project
<img src="https://www.lancaster.ac.uk/media/lancaster-university/content-assets/images/fst/logos/Physicslogo.svg" width="350" height="95">
  &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
phys389-2021-project-twf2360 created by GitHub Classroom

Writing a program that simulates, and hopefully animates, a Newton's cradle, for module PHYS389 at Lancaster University. 
### About PHYS389: Computer Modelling
PHYS389 is intented to build upon previous Computer Modelling techniques from PHYS281, and introduce more advanced programming techniques than those used in the previous Computer Modelling Module, PHYS281. These more advanced techniques could be more sophisticated class methods, such as inheritcance. Alternatively, the system could be more complicated than the PHYS281, consisting of more complicated motion - such as random, or choatic motion. Additionally, as an addition to PHYS281, a testing system should be implemented, using libraries such as PyTest. This is a large portion of the final grade, and it is important that it is included

### Personal Project 
As two of the recommended projects were a force damped pendulum, or a double pendulum. To add to this, I decided to try to code a Newton's Cradke. Ideally, the 'pendulum motion' shown by the balls on the end of the pendulum will also show damped behviour. 
The aim is to not only write a program to simulate and animate a newtons cradle, but to be able to anaylse the simulation and test it's accuracy. I would also like to be able adaptable to user inputs, in this case those inputs being number of balls, and the string length. As there is an analytic solution for pendulum motion with a small angle approximation, this should not be used - instead there should be numerical calculations at a given time interval in order to obtain an approximation to real motion. From this, the effect of changing the time intervals can be analysed. Whilst the original plan was to use an ODE solver, instead all of the forces on each ball will be evaluated at every given moment. Due to the time scale of this project, there is a very high possibility that not all of these goals will be possible. The focus should be on the analysis of the simulation, over the adaptability to user inputs.
Furthermore, There is a possibility that a Newton's Cradle is not a choatic enough system. Should this be the case, the code will be changed to a double pendulum. 

### Milestones 
There are various milestones that will help to document my progress! 
1. Simulate a simple pendulum
    - Done using ODEINT
    - Need to ensure that the 'forces' method works
    - Succesfully animated 
2. Extend to a damped pendulum
    - Done using ODEINT
    - Succesfully animated
3. Model Collisons 
    - Done 
    - Successfully animated
4. Extend to a Newtons Cradle
    - Done, but more testing needing to be done to prove it works 
    - Plotting function needs updating

Commit message:

housekeeping updates: README and branches

README.md, after:

# Newtons_Cradle - PHYS389 Project
<img src="https://www.lancaster.ac.uk/media/lancaster-university/content-assets/images/fst/logos/Physicslogo.svg" width="350" height="95">
  &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
phys389-2021-project-twf2360 created by GitHub Classroom

Writing a program that simulates, and hopefully animates, a Newton's cradle, for module PHYS389 at Lancaster University. 
### About PHYS389: Computer Modelling
PHYS389 is intented to build upon previous Computer Modelling techniques from PHYS281, and introduce more advanced programming techniques than those used in the previous Computer Modelling Module, PHYS281. These more advanced techniques could be more sophisticated class methods, such as inheritcance. Alternatively, the system could be more complicated than the PHYS281, consisting of more complicated motion - such as random, or choatic motion. Additionally, as an addition to PHYS281, a testing system should be implemented, using libraries such as PyTest. This is a large portion of the final grade, and it is important that it is included

### Personal Project 
As two of the recommended projects were a force damped pendulum, or a double pendulum. To add to this, I decided to try to code a Newton's Cradke. Ideally, the 'pendulum motion' shown by the balls on the end of the pendulum will also show damped behviour. 
The aim is to not only write a program to simulate and animate a newtons cradle, but to be able to anaylse the simulation and test it's accuracy. I would also like to be able adaptable to user inputs, in this case those inputs being number of balls, and the string length. As there is an analytic solution for pendulum motion with a small angle approximation, this should not be used - instead there should be numerical calculations at a given time interval in order to obtain an approximation to real motion. From this, the effect of changing the time intervals can be analysed. Whilst the original plan was to use an ODE solver, instead all of the forces on each ball will be evaluated at every given moment. Due to the time scale of this project, there is a very high possibility that not all of these goals will be possible. The focus should be on the analysis of the simulation, over the adaptability to user inputs.
Furthermore, There is a possibility that a Newton's Cradle is not a choatic enough system. Should this be the case, the code will be changed to a double pendulum. 


### Routemap
The folder titled "learning" contains three more simple scripts that were used in order to understand the concepts behind the Newton's Cradle. These concepts are simple pendulums, damped pendulums, and collisions. 
Although currently empty, the folder titled "testing" will contain a suite of testing functions, designed to test whether or not the code returns the expected results.
The "txt" folder, contains various notes on the project. "notes" is a personal to-do list, as well as containing thoughts on the current state of the project. Branches is used to describe all of the branches that can be found on git, and plotters contains some python functions that were first used to plot the original simple methods in the "learning" folder. These have not been deleted due to the fact that they may be useful at a later date. 
"ball.py" is used to define the balls of the Newton's Cradle; Each ball is defined by a number of properties. These properties are: Their mass, radii, starting position and velocity, and the position of the point they are anchored to. The 'string' between the balls and anchors are currently modelled as massless rods. 
"calculator.py" is used to calculate the motion of the balls, and as of 23/02/21, saves the results as "data_testing.npy", however this will not be the case in the final version of the code
"plotter.py" reads in the saved results, and can plot various graphs based on either the positions or the energies of the balls. 

### Milestones 
There are various milestones that will help to document my progress! 
1. Simulate a simple pendulum
    - Done using ODEINT
    - Need to ensure that the 'forces' method works
    - Succesfully animated 
2. Extend to a damped pendulum
    - Done using ODEINT
    - Succesfully animated
3. Model Collisons 
    - Done 
    - Successfully animated
4. Extend to a Newtons Cradle
    - Done, but more testing needing to be done to prove it works 
    - Plotting function needs updating
